Hello, in this segment, I'm going to
start talking about ranked retrieval.
So, so far,
all of our queries have been Boolean.
If we give a query like ocean and liner,
and the search engine is going to return
precisely the documents that contain
the words ocean and liner, and no others.
Documents either match or they don't.
Now, this could be good for expert users
with the precise understanding of their
needs in the collection.
And it could also be good when information
retrieval system is a component in
a larger application.
And the system consume thousands of
results and adjust the query as needed.
But such a system turns out
not to actually be good for
the vast majority of users.
Most users are incapable of
writing good Boolean queries, or
even if they can write them, they think
it's far too much work to write them.
And in particular, Boolean systems
often produce 1000s of results and
users don't want to wade
through 1000s of results.
This is particularly true
of web search applications.
In general, there's this problem
with Boolean search, the feast or
famine problem.
Boolean queries often result in either
too few returned results, 1 or 2,
or even 0, because documents don't
precisely satisfy the search request.
Or else, they result in too many results,
into the order of 1000s or more.
So for example,
here's a system giving results.
If I give it the query "standard user
dlink 650", it returns 200,000 results.
So I try and
make my query more specific and
ask "standard user dlink
650 no card found".
But then, I get 0 results.
It takes a lot of skill to
come up with a query that
produces a manageable number of hits.
The basic problem is,
if you're putting an AND between words,
you get too few results.
And if you put OR between words,
you get too many results.
So, part of the solution of that has been
the development of
ranked retrieval models.
And the idea of these is, that rather than
a set of documents satisfying a query,
in ranked retrieval models,
the system returns
an ordering over the top documents in
the collection with respect to the query.
Going along with that has been
the adoption of free text queries.
Rather than explicit query language like
the Boolean retrieval model with its Ands,
Ors, and Nots, instead the user's query is
now just some words in a human language.
In principle,
these are two separate choices,
which can be manipulated separately,
but in practice,
ranked retrieval models have normally
been associated with free text queries.
And the opposite for
the Boolean retrieval model.
The feast or famine problem
doesn't exist in ranked retrieval.
When a system produces a large result set,
users don't really notice.
Indeed, the size of the result set
basically isn't an issue, because
normally the system will start off by just
showing the user the top few results, and
so, not overwhelm the user.
And so, the total number of results
is something they probably might even
know or notice.
This all depends on having a ranking
algorithm that works well though,
so that the top results are good results.
So the basis of ranked retrieval is
having a good system of scoring.
We need to be able to return the documents
that are most likely useful to
the searcher.
And so, that raises the question
of how can we rank order the documents
with respect to a query.
And the method we'll look at to do that
is the idea that what we should do
is assign a score, say, a number
between 0 and 1, to each document.
This score measures how well the document
and the query match each other.
So we need a way of assigning
a score to a query-document pair.
Let's start with a one-term query.
Well, if the query term doesn't
occur in the document, the score for
the document should be 0.
And then beyond that, probably what we
want to say is that the more frequently
the query term appears in the document,
the higher the score should be.
And after that, how exactly do we
score documents isn't quite so clear.
And so, in upcoming segments we'll look
at a number of alternatives for this.
Okay, but I hope that's given you an idea
of what ranked retrieval models are and
how they differ from
the Boolean retrieval model.